- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we're going to begin our migration to Java 11
by updating the JDK and IDE on our local workstations.
This is a pretty common first step in every migration
because it provides a working environment
where the application can be migrated
prior to promoting it to upper environments.
First, we're going to need to install our target JDK
for the application.
This is going to be JDK 11,
since it is the latest LTS release.
If we take a peek at my machine in PowerShell,
you'll see that currently I have Java 8 installed
and we're going to navigate
to the adoptopenjdk.net website
in order to get JDK 11
from our provider AdoptOpenJDK.
You'll notice that the website provides us
with a nice form where we can specify the JDK binary version
that we would like to obtain
and also select between a JVM.
So in our case, we're going to use the HotSpot JVM
and we're going to use OpenJDK 11.
Once we've made those selections just click on Download
and that will cause the JDK to be downloaded
to your machine.
Now I've already downloaded the JDK to my machine
so that we can quickly install it.
On Windows machines, this is pretty simple.
Here, we see the MSI Installer and all we need to do
is click on it and that's going to open up a wizard
where we can begin installation of the AdoptOpenJDK JDK.
You'll notice it is version 11, which is our target version.
So I'm just going to go ahead and click on Next.
I'll then accept the license terms.
And then on this screen,
we're able to specify a custom setup.
I'm going to select
the Set Java Home Variable option
in this screen
and this will cause JDK 11 to be set
as the default Java version for my machine.
Once I've selected this,
I can just go ahead and hit Next
and then begin the installation.
Okay, so the installation has finished
and now if I were to close the PowerShell Window
and open another PowerShell Window,
you can see that my machine has been updated to Java 11.
Okay, so that takes care of the JDK on my local workstation.
Let's check out our IDE.
So currently, my IDE
is Eclipse Neon.
This is a pretty old version of Eclipse
and it will not be compatible with Java 11.
So we're going to go ahead and upgrade to the latest version
of Eclipse to ensure that we get all of the support
and tolling the latest version of Java.
We can download the latest version of Eclipse
from the eclipse.org website.
Simply click on the Download link on the website
and you'll notice that it automatically sets you up
to download the most latest version of Eclipse
for your platform.
If you were to seek other versions of Eclipse,
you can navigate into this page,
where you'll see there's other builds that are available.
But in general,
we want to stick with the latest version.
Now I've already downloaded the Eclipse IDE
for enterprise Java developers to my workstation,
just to save us some time.
Let's go ahead and we can install that software
to our system.
So I've placed the software within a dev directory
on my C drive.
So there you see Eclipse Neon
and we're just going to go ahead
and right click on the latest version of Eclipse,
which is distributed as a zip file and hit Extract all.
Now here, you can see
it's trying to use a pretty long name
for where we're going to place Eclipse.
So I'm just going to shorten the name of that folder
and we'll call it Eclipse-2020-03.
And then we'll go ahead and extract Eclipse
and you'll see that it begins to extract onto our workspace.
Once we have extracted the Eclipse IDE onto our workstation,
we can navigate into the folder and open the program.
The first time we open the program,
it's going to ask us to specify a default workspace.
I'm just going to create a new folder on my desktop
and I'll name this folder, Exercise Files
and then select it as my default workspace.
And then we'll click on the Launch button
to continue opening Eclipse.
Okay, and then once in Eclipse,
if we take a look at the preferences,
you'll notice that our installed JREs
is going to contain JDK 11.
Eclipse picked this up by default
and was able to make this our default JDK.
Now in many situations in a migration,
you're going to need multiple JDKs installed in Eclipse.
So let's go ahead and set up JDK 8 as well.
So within this panel, just click on Add
and then from here, select Standard VM and hit Next.
And then it's going to ask us to navigate
to the directory containing our JDK.
So just click on Directory
and from here,
we're going to find that JDK 8
is installed under C, Program Files, AdoptOpen JDK.
And here, we can see that JDK 8 is installed.
So just double click that folder and hit Select Folder.
At this point,
we have everything in place in order to add JDK 8
as an option within Eclipse.
There, we can see it appears within our installed JREs.
So we'll just hit Apply and then Apply and Close.
After these steps,
our local workstation is set up for our target JDK
and our IDE has been upgraded to the latest version
and we've added our JDK 8 in case we need to support
both versions of the application.
This positions us to begin migration work
for our application on our local workstation.